Add Bitcoin, Litecoin, Dogecoin RPC methods (#1649)
WalletConnect/walletconnect-docs: docs/advanced/multichain/rpc-reference/bitcoin-rpc.md

---
description: Bitcoin JSON-RPC Methods
---

# Bitcoin
We define an account as the group of addresses derived using the same account value in their [derivation paths](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki#user-content-Path_levels). We use the first address of the [external chain](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki#examples) ("first external address"), as the identifier for an account. An account's total balance is defined as the sum of all unspent transaction outputs (UTXOs) belonging to its entire group of addresses.

> 1. Dapps **must** only display the first external address as a connected account.
> 2. Wallets **must** only offer to connect the first external address(es).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Dapps **must** display to the user the first external address **only**as the "connected account".
2. Wallets **must** use the first external address **only** as the "connected account" in responses to initial connection requests. Additional accounts may be provided interactively once a session has been established (see [getAccountAddresses](#getAccountAddresses) below).
```

when you add `bip122_addressChanged` documentation, you might also want to link to it from this introductory section, lest the reference to "initial connection config" versus interactive RPC polling be confusing?

Reviewer: I think RPC spec section is good, for greater visibility to dapps, unless glitch has better or additional places in mind?

Author: About being able to provide additional "accounts" after connecting, that's not possible via getAccountAddresses. getAccountAddresses is exclusively used to share addresses belonging to an already connected account.

Reviewer 2: Yes please, methods and events in the same page, we can add different H tags to differentiate them. The main idea is to have a single page as source of truth for CAIP-25 namespaces integrations with WalletConnect, so we can link to this from Wallet and App SDKs documentations.

    * `recipientAddress` : `String` - _(Required)_ The recipient's public address.
    * `amount` : `String` - _(Required)_ The amount of Bitcoin to send, denominated in satoshis (Bitcoin base unit).
    * `changeAddress` : `String` - _(Optional)_ The sender's public address to receive change.
    * `memo` : `String` - _(Optional)_ The OP_RETURN value as a hex string without 0x prefix, maximum 80 bytes.

### Returns
* `Object` 
    * `txid` : `String` - _(Required)_ The transaction id as a hex string without 0x prefix.

### Example
The example below specifies a simple transfer of 1.23 BTC (123000000 Satoshi).

```javascript
// Request
{
    "id": 1,
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "sendTransfer",
    "params": {
        "account": "bc1qcr8te4kr609gcawutmrza0j4xv80jy8z306fyu",
        "recipientAddress": "bc1pmzfrwwndsqmk5yh69yjr5lfgfg4ev8c0tsc06e",
        "amount": "123000000",
        "memo": "636861726c6579206c6f766573206865"
    }
}

// Result
{
    "id": 1,
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "txid": "f007551f169722ce74104d6673bd46ce193c624b8550889526d1b93820d725f7"
    }
}
```

## getAccountAddresses

> This method returns all current addresses needed for a dapp to fetch all UTXOs, calculate the total balance and prepare transactions. No response can be expected until the user unlocks its wallet and approves the request. Dapps will typically use an indexing service to query for balances and UTXOs for all addresses returned by this method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method returns all current addresses needed for a dapp to fetch all UTXOs, calculate the total balance and prepare transactions. No response can be expected until the user unlocks its wallet and approves the request. Dapps will typically use an indexing service to query for balances and UTXOs for all addresses returned by this method, such as:
```

Reviewer: > No response can be expected until the user unlocks its wallet and approves the request.

Can we make this more explicit, something like, "This method is assumed to be interactive, and many wallets will simply not respond if the wallet is locked, if the wallet does not have focus in the mobile OS, or if the end-user has been prompted for consent but not given it."
I suggest this because it's not actually _mandatory_ (and wouldn't be _enforceable_ if it were) that wallets ask for consent, for example, so I prefer it be stated as an expected behavior than a normative one.

Reviewer: sure, i have no opinion here, besides making sure dapps don't think approval flow is more standardized than it is... or that lack of response can mean any one thing universally!

* [Blockbook API](https://github.com/trezor/blockbook/blob/master/docs/api.md#get-address)
* [Bitcore API](https://github.com/bitpay/bitcore/blob/master/packages/bitcore-node/docs/api-documentation.md#address)

> We recognize that there are two different kinds of wallets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recognize that there are two broad classes of wallets in use today:
```

### Implementation Details
1. Wallets **should** always include the first external address and all addresses with one or more UTXOs, unless they're filtered by `intentions`.

2. Wallets **should** emit a `bip122_addressesChanged` event for every account and BIP122 chain ID, after connection approval and when changes are detected. The event data must have the same format as the `getAccountAddresses` result.

3. Dynamic wallets **should** include minimum 2 unused change and receive addresses. Otherwise dapps may have to request [getAccountAddresses](#getAccountAddresses) after every transaction to discover the new addresses and keep track of the user's total balance.

4. Wallets **must** never return more than 20 unused change or receive addresses to avoid breaking the [gap limit](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki#address-gap-limit).

### Example: Dynamic Wallet
The example below specifies a result from a dynamic wallet. For the sake of this example, receive and change addresses with index 3-4 are considered unused and addresses with paths m/49'/0'/0'/0/7 and m/84'/0'/0'/0/2 are considered to have UTXOs.

> Assuming the dapp monitors all returned addresses for balance changes, a new request to `getAccountAddresses` is only needed when all UTXOs have been spent, all unused receive or all unused change addresses have been used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming the dapp monitors all returned addresses for balance changes, a new request to `getAccountAddresses` is only needed when all provided UTXOs have been spent, or when all provided `receive` addresses or `change` addresses have been used.
```

Reviewer: updated

            "path": "m/84'/0'/0'/0/4"
        },
        {
            "address": "bc1qv6vaedpeke2lxr3q0wek8dd7nzhut9w0eqkz9z",
            "publicKey": "03d0d243b6a3176fa20fa95cd7fb0e8e0829b83fc2b52053633d088c1a4ba91edf",
            "path": "m/84'/0'/0'/1/3"
        },
        {
            "address": "bc1qetrkzfslk0d4kqjnu29fdh04tkav9vj3k36vuh",
            "publicKey": "02a8dee7573bcc7d3c1e9b9e267dbf0cd717343c31d322c5b074a3a97090a0d952",
            "path": "m/84'/0'/0'/1/4"
        }
    ]
}
```

### Example: Static Wallet
The example below specifies a response from a static wallet. The returned address is used for both change and payments. It's the only address with UTXOs.

```javascript
// Request
{
    "id": 1,
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "getAccountAddresses",
    "params": {
        "account": "bc1qcr8te4kr609gcawutmrza0j4xv80jy8z306fyu"
    }
}

// Result
{
    "id": 1,
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": [
        {
            "address": "bc1qcr8te4kr609gcawutmrza0j4xv80jy8z306fyu",
            "publicKey": "0330d54fd0dd420a6e5f8d3624f5f3482cae350f79d5f0753bf5beef9c2d91af3c",
            "path": "m/84'/0'/0'/0/0"
        }
    ]
}
```

## signPsbt

> This method is for use-cases requiring granular control over what UTXOs to spend or requiring more than a single recipient, change or OP_RETURN output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This more advanced method is for use-cases involving multiple-recipient transactions, or requiring granular control over which UTXOs to spend, how to route change, or complex OP_RETURN output. 
```
It's probably strategic to make sure new-to-BTC dapps consider this the "advanced topics" method and be a little scared to use it, filter which wallets they offer it to, etc etc.

Reviewer: updated

1. Dapps **must** only display the first external address as a connected account.
2. Wallets **must** only offer to connect the first external address(es).

#### Account Definition
The derivation path levels in the [BIP44](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki#path-levels), [BIP49](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0049.mediawiki#user-content-Public_key_derivation), [BIP84](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0084.mediawiki#public-key-derivation), [BIP86](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0086.mediawiki#user-content-Public_key_derivation) standards are: 
```
m / purpose' / coin_type' / account' / change / address_index
```

> Addresses with different `purpose`, `change` and `address_index` values are considered to belong to the same account. Valid `purpose` values are 44, 49, 84 and 86. We use the first external Native SegWit (purpose = 84) address as the default account identifier.

Author: Native SegWit is simply the most well-used address standard, it may shift to Taproot in the future. More than one of the first external addresses (different purpose values), may hold UTXOs and therefore be included in the response. It’s mostly a recommendation for consistency/recognition between dapp UIs.

> Addresses with different `purpose`, `change` and `address_index` values are considered to belong to the same account. Valid `purpose` values are 44, 49, 84 and 86. We use the first external Native SegWit (purpose = 84) address as the default account identifier.

Author: The spec. is already quite lengthy, I’d opt to leave this rationale out. It’s vague anyway. We essentially needed one address to use as identifier and we picked the most used address type, at the time of writing.

    "params": {
        "account": "bc1qcr8te4kr609gcawutmrza0j4xv80jy8z306fyu",
        "recipientAddress": "bc1pmzfrwwndsqmk5yh69yjr5lfgfg4ev8c0tsc06e",
        "amount": "123000000",
        "memo": "636861726c6579206c6f766573206865"
    }
}

// Result
{
    "id": 1,
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "txid": "f007551f169722ce74104d6673bd46ce193c624b8550889526d1b93820d725f7"
    }
}
```

## getAccountAddresses
This method returns all current addresses needed for a dapp to fetch all UTXOs, calculate the total balance and prepare transactions. Dapps will typically use an indexing service to query for balances and UTXOs for all addresses returned by this method, such as:
* [Blockbook API](https://github.com/trezor/blockbook/blob/master/docs/api.md#get-address)
* [Bitcore API](https://github.com/bitpay/bitcore/blob/master/packages/bitcore-node/docs/api-documentation.md#address)

We recognize that there are two broad classes of wallets in use today:
1. Wallets that generate a new change or receive address for every transaction ("dynamic wallet").
2. Wallets that reuse the first external address for every transaction ("static wallet").

#### Implementation Details

> * Wallets **should** always include the first external address and all addresses with one or more UTXOs, unless they're filtered by `intentions`.

Author: I’d say it’s obvious for static wallet developers that they are covered by ”wallets”. They only have a single address to return anyway.

> * Wallets **should** always include the first external address and all addresses with one or more UTXOs, unless they're filtered by `intentions`.

Author: Updated and changed from ”more than” to ”fewer” for better readability.

* Dynamic wallets **should** include minimum 2 unused change and receive addresses. Otherwise dapps may have to request [getAccountAddresses](#getAccountAddresses) after every transaction to discover the new addresses and keep track of the user's total balance.
* Wallets **must** never return more than 20 unused change or receive addresses to avoid breaking the [gap limit](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki#address-gap-limit).

### Parameters
* `Object`
    * `account` : `String` - _(Required)_ The connected account's first external address.

>     * `intentions` : `String[]` - _(Optional)_ Filter what addresses to return, e.g. "payment" or "ordinal".

Author: No, I only observed `payment` and `ordinal` in the wild. The working group (including myself) prefer keeping it flexible (string vs enum). It’s an optional filter anyway. 

We could possibly define the two known ones in WBIPs @janniks or CASA @bumblefudge?

>     * `intentions` : `String[]` - _(Optional)_ Filter what addresses to return, e.g. "payment" or "ordinal".

Author: I’d not hold up merging for this, rather let `intentions` form in the next few months and add relevant references/lists as they form.

>     * `intentions` : `String[]` - _(Optional)_ Filter what addresses to return, e.g. "payment" or "ordinal".

Reviewer 3: All good 👍 Was mainly curious if there were more known values than listed here and whether worth surfacing, but can backlink as needed later.

    * `message` : `String` - _(Required)_ The message to be signed by the wallet.
    * `address` : `String` - _(Optional)_ The address whose private key to use for signing the message.
    * `protocol` : `"ecdsa" | "bip322"` - _(Optional)_ Preferred signature type. Default is `"ecdsa"`.

### Returns
* `Object`
    * `address` : `String` - _(Required)_ The Bitcoin address used to sign the message.
    * `signature` : `String` - _(Required)_ Hex encoded bytes of the signature, without 0x prefix.
    * `messageHash` : `String` - _(Optional)_ Hex encoded bytes of the message hash, without 0x prefix.

## Events
### bip122_addressesChanged
This event is used by wallets to notify dapps about connected accounts' current addresses, for example all addresses with a UTXO and a few unused addresses. The event data has the same format as the [getAccountAddresses](#getaccountaddresses) result.

#### Implementation Details
* Wallets **should** emit a `bip122_addressesChanged` event immediately after connection approval of a BIP122 chain.
* Wallets **should** emit a `bip122_addressesChanged` event whenever a UTXO is spent or created for a connected account's addresses.

> * Dapps **should** listen for `bip122_addressesChanged` events, collect and monitor all addresses for UTXO and balance changes.

Reviewer 4: Great addition 👏
